The New Observing Strategies Testbed (NOS-T) is a computational environment designed to develop, test, mature, and socialize innovative operating concepts and technologies for NASA's New Observing Strategies (NOS). It provides a robust infrastructure that enables the integration and orchestration of user-contributed applications to simulate system-of-systems test cases, allowing for true distributed control over constituent systems. This environment empowers principal investigators to conduct virtual Earth science mission simulations, systematically varying parameters to evaluate the effectiveness of proposed observing strategies. The resulting data and outcomes support the advancement of technology readiness levels and foster innovation in Earth science measurement techniques.

At the core of NOS-T is a loosely coupled, event-driven architecture (EDA), where applications communicate state changes through event notifications transmitted over a network. These events, encapsulated as message payloads, carry the necessary data to reflect system state transitions. This architecture enhances scalability and reliability by replicating event-handling functions across infrastructure instances, while maintaining modularity through a simple event-handling interface. NOS-T also aligns with service-oriented architecture (SOA) principles, as applications can trigger services in response to specific events.

A key component of this architecture is the event broker (or message broker), which centralizes communication by managing the exchange of event notifications between applications. Rather than requiring direct connections between all applications, each client connects only to the broker, simplifying the communication topology and improving system manageability. This design enables seamless coordination among user applications and the NOS-T manager application via a shared information system infrastructure, facilitating the execution of complex, distributed Earth science mission scenarios.